

# Methods

First of all we have used blastx to determine from the contig13 the proteins that we can obtain from this sequence related to our organism. After that, we store the protein fasta of one of the matches, the one with the smallest e-value.                    

After that, we pick up the first two possible proteins which are the ones with more probability, which are caenorhabditis briggsae and caenorhabditis remanei.

Then we used the following commands of bash to proceed with the homology based techniques:
~~~
exonerate -m p2g --showtargetgff -q CAEBRENhypo.fa -t contig_13.fa -S F | egrep -w exon > CAEBREN.exonerate.gff
~~~
This command it’s used to look after the coinciding exons and with the egrep we save the values to look carefully after them.
~~~
bedtools getfasta -fi contig_13.fa -bed CAEBREN.exonerate.gff > exonerate_hypo.fa
~~~
With this command we obtained a fasta from the gff generated by exonerate to look for them in an easier way.
~~~
sed -e '2,$s/>.*//' exonerate_hypo.fa |grep -v '^$' > exonerate_hypo_singleLine.fa
~~~
And with this last command we located the information of the exons and we created a text file with only the sequence of nucleotides.

# Results
## Ab Initio
In the [geneID](abInitio/genes/geneIdGene1.fa) we catche 1 gene and 13 exons, with the [FGENESH](anInitio/FGENESH.fa) we catch 2 genes and 15 exons and finally with the [GENESCAN](abInitio/GENESCAN.fa) with 2 genes.

We have determined that FGENESH and GENESCAN that have 2 genes we catch the more centric of the 2 to comaprate becaus the other ones are situated in oposite extremes.

## Homology based
The gene of the blasx is one of the spices *Caenorhabditis brenneri* is the same gene as the Ab Initio verified with the aligment done in the [TCOFFEE](abInitio/TCOFFEE/analisis3.png)
